Update the-three-letters.md (#20)
theotherphil/bevy-website: content/learn/book/intro/the-three-letters.md

status = 'hidden'
+++

The core concept in Bevy is the [ECS architecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entity_component_system), which stands for **Entity, Component, System**. It is a way of organizing the data of a program, and controlling how that data is accessed and updated. ECS has been utilized in a number of commercial game engines, and has been increasing in popularity in the last several decades.

There are two main mental models for how to think about ECS:

> - The **object-like model:** similar to game objects you may be familiar with from some other engines.

Reviewer: Nit: My reading felt better without the `some`. Maybe just me?

- The camera

> - The skybox

Reviewer: Might be worth also mentioning something like `Window`, `HighScore`, or `Controller` to stress that entities don't just represent "physical" virtual objects; they can also represent other things.

Author: ok

Author: Unfortunately, each of the examples you mentioned is problematic, for different reasons:
* The reader won't know what a `Controller` is at this point.
* HighScore is usually a resource, not an entity.
* Windows are weird in a number of ways; I'd be hesitant to use them as an example just yet.
Can we come up with different examples?

Reviewer: The windows objection makes sense. The high score I can kinda see, but resources are effectively entities and there's nothing wrong with implementing a high score as an entity vs resource. Soon, the `Res` will just forward to an entity anyway. I'm pretty sure everyone reading this will know what a 🎮 controller is. Maybe I'm missing something?

Anyway, here's some more ideas:

- ui
- inventory item
- particle effect cloud
- physics trigger area

Maybe you can think of more too. A new game developer who's played a video game before should be able to say both: "I know what these are." and "Wow! Everything can be modeled as an entity!" In other engines, windows, assets, singletons, input, etc are all special snowflakes with their own system and API. This is an early chapter, so I want to emphasize the simplicity here: Everything is an entity. There is only one API to learn. Code that works for data in one context will work for data in every context. This is a big selling point that I think we should highlight.

Author: OK added some more non-physical examples.

Reviewer: I'm happy with that. I think to make this better we'd need feedback from someone who's never used bevy before. So I think that's a good place to leave it.

An Entity, by itself, is just an identifier; it does not store any data within it. In order to be useful, it needs to be associated with one or more [components](#the-c-components).

> In the "in-memory database" model, entities are the primary keys in our database, with each entity getting its own row and unique identifier.

Reviewer: Probably not everyone reading this will have enough db experience to know what primary keys are. Maybe introduce them as rows and clarify them as primary keys with a helpful link?

Author: Originally it was "row" but if an entity is just an ID, then it's not really a row. Maybe if I just say "key"?

Reviewer: Maybe row number? I see your point

Author: I changed it to "row key". I could be convinced to change it to "row index" maybe?

Reviewer: up to you. Either sound good to me. As long as its consistent.

While entities are conceptually similar to Objects in object-oriented engines, they are distinctly different bececause they **do not store any behavior**.
This is handled by [systems](#the-s-systems).

> **Note on terminology**: The word "entity" is often used to represent just the actual entity id, or the "whole" entity: the id along with all of its components. In this book, when we mean the former, we'll capitalize the word `Entity` and typographically highlight it as a code symbol. When we mean the latter, we'll type it in lower case.

Reviewer: Couple opinionated thoughts on these sentences:

- I prefer "both ... and" instead of "just...or"
- Components haven't been introduced yet. Maybe say data and link to the components section.
- More clarity on how they are differentiated would be good too.

Here's an idea:

```suggestion
**Note on terminology**: Sometimes, using the word "entity"  on its own can be ambiguous. Does it mean the row/id/primary key or does it mean the game object/thing it represents with all its data? In Bevy, entity ids are modeled in the `Entity` type. As a result, `Entity` typically refers to the id, and a lowercase "entity" typically refers to the game object. 
```

Author: Ooops, I should have accepted this suggestion instead of re-writing it.

Author: Screw it, I'll patch in your text as-is.

> **Note on terminology**: The word "entity" is often used to represent just the actual entity id, or the "whole" entity: the id along with all of its components. In this book, when we mean the former, we'll capitalize the word `Entity` and typographically highlight it as a code symbol. When we mean the latter, we'll type it in lower case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note on terminology**: The word "entity" is often used to refer to the entity id itself, or to the "whole" entity: the id along with all of its components. In this book, when we mean the former, we'll capitalize the word `Entity` and typographically highlight it as a code symbol. When we mean the latter, we'll type it in lower case.
```
This phrase feels weird, I'm not entirely sold on my suggestion either.
